---
title: Test test, is this thing on?
date: 2026-04-14
description: This is the first post on my new React-powered blog using GitHub as a CMS.
---

I have always wanted to have my own blog site, built with code and not hosted on a site like Medium, Blogger, Wordpress, or others. I don't have anything against these sites, but I'm looking to have my own where I can control my own content and learn from the experience. This blog isn't self-hosted, rather it uses Github Pages to host the site, but I'll be able to build this out the way I want.

## How it's made and why I did this

This blog idea came from another project I was on for a short time, using Github as the CMS for my content and having JavaScript and React display the content on the front end for the reader to enjoy. Each blog post is a markdown file in the blog repository, and when I make a new markdown file and commit the new file to the respository, the blog site will update.

The reason I did this was to make the authentication easier. I don't have an extra login or account, and it's less code to write. I just log into my Github, make a new file, commit it, and that's it!

Markdown also gives me control over how information is presented. I felt Medium was okay at it, but markdown lets you update font styles, create code snippets, insert pictures and videos, and more without having to figure out what plugins and components come with a blogging platform like Medium. 

## What am I losing in the process?
This doesn't come without drawbacks. Right now, the blog site is very basic. I don't have much set up in the way of SEO. I also don't have a network that distributes my posts to others automatically. That's one thing Medium does very well - I felt like I was getting posts shared to others and getting a lot of views as a result. I don't have a metrics page right now measuring page views and blog post views. And no, I don't have dark mode right now (but I'll work on that!). Lastly, I only have a home page and a post page, with no way to explain who I am or how to contact me.

These are all future enhancements I want to make, but I'm not in a rush. Over time, I'll make it a better site.

## Did I use AI?
I have to answer this, because the answer is "yes." I made this site in about 2 hours using Gemini CLI. This project specifically is one that I want to have to showcase that I'm learning about AI tools and staying up to date on current trends. I'm able to understand what the code does, I know how it all connects, and I was the one who reviewed and approved every git commit and push. 

I came up mostly with the file structure of the project, so I'd be familiar with the layout. And some of the changes made since the initial push have been manual by me - I updated the favicon and blog title, and I solved a bug that was returning duplicate post titles on each post. While AI wrote everything for me pretty quickly using the stack I asked it to use, I'm in a position to manually go in and fix things in the future if I don't want to use the AI and want to keep my own coding skills sharp.

## What's next?
I'm going to obviously get better at writing markdown files. This will be great in the future as well for writing more AGENTS.md and tool specific files that AI uses for context. I'm probably going to try cross posting on Medium too, but the original source of the blog posts will always live here. 

I will also be posting some older articles from Medium to this blog and will note at the top of each post the original posting date and Medium URL for the blog post, just to give this blog some content to start off.

## And lastly...
If you made it this far in the blog, thank you for reading! I am Aaron, an experienced low-code and web developer from the United States and currently living in South Korea. I make cool stuff and help organizations solve problems using code and my knowledge of AI tooling. Feel free to connect with me on [LinkedIn](https://www.linkedin.com/in/aaronmccollum/) or follow me on [Bluesky](https://bsky.app/profile/aaronmccollum.bsky.social) — happy to connect for a coffee chat as well!
